The construction industry, like many other sectors, took a hit during the pandemic - site work came to a standstill, projects were delayed indefinitely, and supply chains were disrupted. However, the industry has taken a promising turn towards technology to meet these challenges - a shift that is predicted to have a lasting impact on its future. By using digital solutions to connect teams, minimise conflicts between various disciplines, ensure worker safety and receive precise feedback on design strategies, construction is all set to be a more resource-efficient and productive industry in the next few decades.

The popularity of cloud-based collaboration platforms, especially construction management softwares, has shot up since the pandemic began and remote working became the norm. Construction managers and building project managers have been using them to manage projects,. These digital solutions are quickly gaining favour for many reasons. Centralised project information in the place of scattered sources gives stakeholders easy access to real-time project information. The cross-device compatibility of these solutions makes working on the go easier than ever, as they can be used from a desktop, tablet or smartphone. Moreover, they automate workflows and digitize processes, reducing paperwork and time lost in manual documentation.

Easily the most disruptive technology of the past decade for the construction industry, building information modelling (BIM) software has established its presence in several design and construction firms today. It has become especially relevant in complex construction projects, which require precise coordination between various engineering disciplines. By translating them into a single three-dimensional model based in the cloud, BIM helps detect clashes between building systems early on, while allowing team members to simultaneously work on their respective disciplines remotely.

The potential of smart solutions on construction sites is being explored through a variety of products. Smart wearables are being used to ensure social distancing at sites and monitor worker health, along with giving workers ready access to information and connectivity to design teams. Wireless drones are being employed for their possible applications in site surveying and in monitoring construction progress remotely.

With construction sites around the world gradually resuming operations, these digital tools will be part of a new hybrid system of work, bringing remote collaborators and physical construction activity together in a seamlessly managed model with the help of technology.
