Decisions taken need to be conveyed to all via efficient communication and then monitored and controlled to get things done!

A meeting in the construction domain is all about the agendas, the action-packed tasks, the updates and takeaways that need to be managed efficiently. Productivity takes a hit if due diligence is not paid to this important aspect of knowledge management. Meetings are scheduled regularly and often transpire into non-productive overlaps, due to inaccurate data handling. The agreed tasks are transitioned to a to-do list and often we experience that most of the tasks still sit unprocessed and generate a lag which can threaten a project schedule, budgets and the finish quality which are the core performance areas for a Construction manager.

It is inevitable that one needs to carry forward the assigned tasks to the next scheduled project meeting in order to get things done. The Pandemic has limited meetings on the virtual platform, making knowledge-sharing even more complicated. Most of the meeting participants are clueless of the progress and direction of the projects and the assigned tasks. Meetings follow the traditions of bundles of paperwork and jotting of scribbles on agenda sheets. Loss of clarity escalates further when we discuss multiple construction projects in a meeting. To manage projects efficiently one requires an upgrade, preferably Technology.

Bringing Digitisation truly into perspective, one can align various tasks to a cloud based storage, saving on the costs of printing and physically storing paper, files and documents. Important aspects like reworking, clash detection and reviews. The construction management softwares uses SSL security and regular back-ups makes it easy to track information. These cloud based platforms timestamp and date all your actions and lets one see the team member participation. As a result, various key aspects to a meeting, despite it being so long, are well documented and knowledge is shared between all stakeholders in an efficient manner.

The AEC domain awaits simple technology to boost factors like productivity and communication, longingly. Construction management software is a requirement of a majority of firms in the built environment sector. A construction manager must be able to regulate core project aspects like- Construction scheduling, planning, monitoring and controlling through a cloud based software, enabling them to gain an advantage over the limitations the Covid-19 Pandemic has instilled the industry with. This demand must be met with smart solutions for evident problems in the domain to generate commerce for all construction allied sectors.
