The unprecedented impact of the pandemic has enabled the use of technology to grow more than ever before, with the belief that remote work will become crucial in the post-pandemic world. During the lockdown, we have seen an accelerated demand for digital transformation, and how technology has increased the efficiency and connectivity amongst team members. This has created a huge shift in the way construction projects work and has brought about a realisation of the benefits of integrated platforms resulting in improved output and transparency of work. 

Today, many companies are opting to work remotely, but at the same time, want to stay connected. In such situations, project managers who have adopted technology have seen increased productivity in their teams through real-time collaboration and communication. Collaborative platforms have proved to be quite effective in providing real-time access to information and updates to all stakeholders right on their phones. With just one updated workspace that has the latest drawings, meeting minutes, tasks, RFIs and submittals, these platforms have the potential to make the daily work process smoother. 

The use of singular, integrated platform technology, with increased connectivity and the ability to work remotely on a single platform, allows companies to deliver projects quickly while maintaining quality. Push notifications allow team members to get updates on the project's progress in real-time and respond right from their phones. Document management becomes simple, trackable and accountable. Sending drawings or meeting minutes is more efficient than typing long emails, constantly updating Excel or sending the information via snail mail that doesn't happen in real-time. Finding attachments, reminding someone about a pending task, responding to issues at hand all become easy and rework due to old drawings become very unlikely. Sending reminders about upcoming tasks and overdue items is built-in and seamless with such apps. It also notifies you about all the updates you want to track, and also timestamps and dates all actions.

The real-time connected approach that is used by these platforms allows the delivery of the whole lifecycle of information on every project. Connectivity is ensured through different sources, thereby providing better analysis and outcome. At present, the way construction companies function, collaborate, connect and assess information is changing constantly. This has resulted in traditional communication being replaced by real-time technological advances. Collaborative platforms help in achieving this by providing companies the flexibility to adapt to new technologies and, thereby, an efficient everyday outcome. Hence, with increased connectivity and mobility through such platforms, the future of the construction industry shall observe a new reality — one that is dependent on digitisation. 
