The construction industry, like many other sectors, took a hit during the pandemic with site work coming to a standstill. Projects were delayed indefinitely, and supply chains were disrupted. There have been huge gaps in planning and coordination in the management of construction projects with teams. As a result of coordination and communication gaps, there has been a lot of delays and rework that happens in the construction industry. 

However, the industry has taken a promising turn towards technology to meet these challenges; a shift that is predicted to have a lasting impact on its future. By using digital solutions to connect teams, minimise conflicts between various disciplines, ensure worker safety and receive precise feedback on design strategies, construction is all set to be a more resource-efficient and productive industry in the next few decades. During the lockdown, we have seen an accelerated demand for digital transformation, and how technology has increased the efficiency and connectivity amongst team members. The connected approach that is used by these collaborative platforms allows the delivery of the whole lifecycle of information on every project. Connectivity is ensured through different sources providing better analysis and outcome. The ease of access to information makes it efficient in terms of quality with reduced risk of error on site. One can use the platform from anywhere — the office or the field and can access it from the Web, iPad, iPhone, or Android devices enabling easy communication and connectivity amongst team members. Incorporating collaborative platform applications also reduces paperwork and makes field-to-office communication faster, trackable, and mobile. 

Today, the sudden shift in working dynamics has made us rethink the ways we function at work. This has resulted in traditional communication being replaced by technological advances. It has become increasingly important as it enables employees as stakeholders in the process. With increased productivity, connectivity and the ability to work remotely on a single platform, collaborative platforms allow companies to deliver projects maintaining quality while ensuring safety. With platform technology at our fingertips, the continuation of effective construction work during and after the pandemic can be ensured and quick decisions can be taken instantly and without difficulty. Hence, it is safe to say that virtual offices are becoming more common with the use of collaboration platforms; with increased connectivity and mobility through such platforms, the future of the construction industry is sure to see a positive growth. 
