Construction projects often run late, exceed the budget, and in many cases, lead to a loss of time, energy and money. In addition, the construction industry is under continuing pressure to deliver substantial levels of service while ensuring safety and cutting operational costs. Therefore, it is critical to transfer data and information from projects completed in the past. However, the lack of a systematic approach results in a loss of information, and miscommunication, leading to unwanted mistakes. The situation is compounded by the fact that there is no frequent practice of using previously accumulated knowledge.

Knowledge management is the identification, optimisation and active management of intellectual assets to create value, increase productivity, and gain and sustain competitive advantage. The manufacturing and service industries have long applied knowledge management to maximise the efficiency and effectiveness of their projects. Empirical and case studies have concluded that implementing knowledge management strategies on construction projects can accrue benefits like continuously improved performance. 

It is a multi-dimensional construct composed of three principal areas. First, stakeholders in any project must identify the essential information to be shared and utilised for the goodness of the project. Second, the identified data should be organised, analysed, presented, and disseminated optimally so that all stakeholders can easily understand and utilise the output and knowledge produced by the process. Third, stakeholders must retain, refine and validate the information obtained from projects in future endeavours. This information, along with raw numbers, also includes the rich expertise offered by project staff and stakeholders in dealing with the challenges, problems, and opportunities of a construction project. 

Knowledge management is essential for improving the project delivery process and has excellent benefits. Most organisations also perceive knowledge as a vital organisational resource and a source of competitiveness. The use of knowledge management as a primary asset improves the workflow within the organisation by making it efficient. Further, it enables the transfer of the required knowledge across various stages in the project. Finally, capturing and reusing project knowledge reduces the time spent on researching for similar information.

Knowledge management thus provides the background of the project quality improvement in different aspects through the advancement of crucial knowledge factors. Therefore, one can conclude that implementing knowledge management can improve future projects by saving time, improving team management, and structuring tasks.
