The Covid-19 pandemic has caused a huge transformation in the ways of operation in the construction industry. Collaborative platform technology is seen to be growing more than ever before with the belief that remote work will become crucial in the post-pandemic world. During the lockdown, we have seen an accelerated demand for digital transformation, and how technology has increased the efficiency and connectivity amongst team members. Keeping construction job sites operational has been a challenge; however, with the use of new platform technologies, many construction companies have witnessed an improvement in their functioning. Today, many companies prefer to work remotely, but at the same time want to stay connected and safe.

Collaborative platforms have proved to be quite effective in managing all data in one place and providing real-time access to information to all stakeholders right on their phones. With just one updated workspace that has the latest drawings, meeting minutes, tasks, RFIs and submittals, such platforms have the potential to make the daily work process smooth. It also helps project managers, contractors, owners, designers, and architects to collaborate easily from their mobile devices and computers, managing drawings, meetings, tasks, files, photos, etc.

The use of singular, integrated platform technology is definitely ground-breaking and can help the construction industry excel in the post-pandemic industry, when compared to traditional systems. It integrates leading software used by construction professionals, syncs information stored in silos and with different departments and brings it all to one place. With platform technologies at our fingertips, the continuation of effective construction work during and after the pandemic can be ensured and quick decisions can be taken instantly and without difficulty.

The connected approach that is used by these platforms allows the delivery of the whole lifecycle of information on every project. Connectivity is ensured through different sources providing better analysis and outcome. The ease of access to information makes it efficient in terms of quality with reduced risk of error on site.  Incorporating collaborative platform applications also reduces paperwork and makes field-to-office communication faster, trackable, and mobile. They work everywhere –– construction works, in the office, in the field and can be accessed from the Web, iPad, iPhone and Android devices.

At present, the way construction companies function, collaborate, connect and assess information is changing constantly. With the development and adaptation of technology, staying on top of current trends is extremely important. That is exactly what collaboration platforms help in achieving by providing companies the flexibility to adapt to the new systems and technologies with reduced operational risks and an efficient everyday outcome. Hence, it is safe to say that virtual offices are becoming more common with the use of collaboration platforms and with increased connectivity and mobility through such platforms, the future of the construction industry won’t be the same anymore. 
