The construction industry was upended by the novel Coronavirus pandemic - halting work on-site, disrupting supply chains, and leading to delays and disruption of funds. Prior to the outbreak, [GlobalData](https://store.globaldata.com/report/gdcn0019go--global-construction-outlook-to-2024-covid-19-impact/) predicted an increase in the pace of growth in the global construction industry, from 2.6% to 3.1%. However, given the disruption in the world’s economies following the outbreak, the forecast for growth was revised to 0.5%. With the pandemic limiting the number of workers allowed on job sites, the sector witnessed a shift towards cloud-based solutions. The construction industry’s accelerated adoption of cloud-based tools could be the silver lining that improves productivity, a metric in which the construction industry is severely lacking.

In the Post-Covid 19 world, the construction industry will benefit immensely from focusing on fast-tracking digital adoption and cloud based technology. Construction management softwares, enables large-scale remote collaboration in real-time and efficient resource management. All project data is centralised and easily accessible across remote locations. construction managers and project managers can optimize their productivity using these tools, to automate workflows and digitize processes.

A significant aspect of construction management will always require on-site staff, but with cloud based software all the project stakeholders can stay up to date with the progress of the site without being physically present, it also minimises gaps in communication and lapses due to misplaced paperwork. Cloud-based applications also ensure that valuable project data is always stored in a repository and can be accessed at any time.

Although the construction industry will take time to recover from the devastating effects of the Global Pandemic, it encouraged project and construction managers to adopt sophisticated and efficient software solutions that increase efficiency and productivity. This in turn, may prove to be a long-term win.
