**Women need to take a stand wherever required and put forward their point unapologetically. Times are changing and I hope to see more women representatives in the construction industry soon.**

Construction was one of the sectors that had to bear the maximum brunt of the COVID-19 crisis. Several projects remained in the unfinished stages because of the lack of funds. Those that were finished remained unsold because of changing buyer preferences. Here, on the occasion of  [Women’s Day 2021](https://www.99acres.com/articles/womens-day-there-is-no-shortcut-to-success.html "Women’s Day: There is no shortcut to success"), we interact with Yukti Arora, Co-Founder and Chief Product Officer, Buildsys, on several personal and professional issues.

**The year gone by has been a challenging year. What strategies did you adopt to tide over the crisis, and how has the year been for your company?**

The pandemic brought with it unique set of challenges, especially for the construction industry, which remained one of the worst-hit from the  [COVID-19 outbreak](https://www.99acres.com/articles/impact-of-covid-19-on-the-indian-construction-sector.html "Impact of COVID-19 on the Indian construction sector"). We had to figure out ways to work remotely. While we were lucky to have an office at home, it was tricky to disconnect our personal lives from our professional commitments till we returned to the office. On the flip side, we were pleasantly surprised when industry veterans, who are known to be resistant to technology, showed interest in using Buildsys, which is a construction productivity application. The pandemic has indeed accelerated the shift towards digitisation.

**How has been your professional journey so far, and what delights you the most about your career?**

I am content with my professional journey so far. I have worked on numerous projects, understood, strategised, and designed applications for various ecosystems.

As an entrepreneur, I have achieved a lot in my life. As a founder, it has been fulfilling to delve into all stages of the design process ranging from ideation, prototyping and testing products to releasing them into the market. Over the years, I have been able to design a team culture where everyone wants to help the other. I literally jumped with joy when my team followed certain design thinking tools and systems designed by me. It was three months of rigorous hard work. I helped them through the abstract journey of the innovation process, where they researched and made ideations, and in the end, came up with tangible innovation.

**What do you think is the general perception of women in construction?**

As a woman entrepreneur working in a male-dominated sector, I have noticed some biases towards women. It is quite rare to see women in construction, especially in project manager or engineering roles. But times are changing, and I hope to see more women representatives in the near future.

**How do you maintain a work-life balance?**

As an entrepreneur, I spend most of my day time working. Often, it is hard to switch off from work. Therefore, I usually make a plan of activities to strike a balance between my personal and professional lives.

I am an early riser and like to dedicate my mornings to dancing or painting. I also make it a priority to switch off from the screen after a certain hour and spend time reading.

**What are the challenges you have faced as a woman in a male-dominated industry?**

I work in an industry where I constantly need to interact with clients and users. I have often observed a difference in the way they interact with me versus how they interact with my male co-founder. However, I have learnt to sit at the table and respectfully put my point across. I have often seen a change in heart and behaviour when they see my passion, hard work and dedication.

**Any tips for women venturing in construction?**

I would urge more women to take up roles in construction, such as project managers and engineers. I would encourage them to take a stand and put their ideas across unapologetically.

As featured at [99acres.com](https://www.99acres.com/articles/womens-day-women-need-to-take-up-more-challenging-roles-in-the-construction-domain.html).
