The ongoing pandemic has forced most industry sectors to transform
overnight, and the construction industry is no different. Amidst the
obstacles of social distancing and supply chain delays posed by the
pandemic, there has been an urgent and growing need for building and
adapting essential infrastructure like hospitals, as well as keeping
existing projects on track to ensure minimal disruption for customers.

The unique challenges posed by this situation have laid the groundwork
for an accelerated adoption of digital management into the construction
industry, which otherwise previously relied heavily on offline site
management. A wide array of smart applications have been developed in
the space, and have the potential to improve some of the fundamental
limitations in the sector.

The most powerful feature that smart apps facilitate is offsite project
management and instant plan sharing. These tools allow worksites to
operate with limited manpower to meet social distancing guidelines,
while still letting architects and project leads supervise and manage
the project as needed. Construction management apps like Buildsys
centralise project data, plans, and task lists, allowing project leads
to track and instantly direct them on the move, anytime.

Virtual model builder applications are another noteworthy innovation,
which can construct and revise models based on blueprints instantly even
on mobile devices. The assistance provided by these in identifying
problems early has the potential to save hundreds of thousands in costs
through early recognition.

The use of smart apps to make workplaces safer has been similarly
impactful. Examples that can be seen today have been effective in
gamifying on site safety training modules and advising on specific
precautions based on weather conditions and altitude.

This widespread adoption of smart apps in the digitization of
construction management is enabling projects to better meet projections
and improve efficiency by simplifying the management of the project in a
single cloud based platform. With their easy accessibility across both
desktop and mobile devices, they are flexible and accessible to even
first time technology users. Further, better optimisation and planning
leads to better resource management as well, reducing waste output in an
industry which is one of the largest producers of waste globally.

The benefits offered by smart construction management apps are game
changers in the field. With an easy transition process and excellent
utility for projects of all kinds, smart apps are expected to become not
just common, but also an essential part of construction management
practice.
