Today, productivity in the construction industry is lagging behind most other industries. The cause of this productivity lag? Technology—or a lack of it. In contrast to other industries, construction processes still rely heavily on paper to manage essential deliverables, such as blueprints, design drawings, procurement and supply chain orders, equipment logs, daily process reports, and punch lists. Lack of digitization limits and delays information sharing, so owners and contractors are often working from outdated documents. This isn’t surprising given that more than 32% of employees and 28% of managers in the construction industry are still reluctant to adopt technology. Despite this reluctance, construction professionals can experience substantial benefits from adopting technology.

Going paperless isn’t just about saving the environment—it’s about realizing a dramatic increase in productivity for business. By making the switch to a digital construction solution, construction professionals will be able to save time, eliminate rework, reduce costs, protect their plans and improve accountability. Time is a primary cause of project delays that result in cost overruns. But digital tools can reduce time waste, allowing builders to focus on their task.

With digitisation, one can easily overlay any two sheets to view changes, identify clashes, and review constructability. By going paperless, one can also experience dramatic savings and eliminate unnecessary printing costs that continue to be one of the major expenditures for construction projects. Digital platforms also allow us to store data and files digitally that are protected by SSL security and regular back-up making it easier to locate and access documents. These platforms also timestamp and date all actions and lets one see who did what, where, and when.

The lack of investment in technology within the industry and a systemic reluctance by both employees and managers to embrace new innovations has caused construction productivity to remain flat for decades. However, adopting new technology will allow owners to save time and money as well as free contractors from paper dependencies that threaten their competitive advantage.

The construction industry is experiencing a digital renaissance that has the power to influence how construction is managed for the next 100 years. Going digital will help reduce risk, increase ROI, and boost productivity. By transitioning to paperless Construction Management, one can experience the benefits of a digital world as well.
